Hi, guys.
Directory service has been around for a little while, comes up on the exam every now and then, sometimes
a bit more than other exams.
So it really depends what you get on the day.
But I definitely want to cover this one off in a reasonable amount of detail so that you definitely
understand it now.
The key thing is there's free different services underneath a directory service that I want to talk
about today.
There's the AWB managed Microsoft Active Directory.
There's simple aid and there's a connector.
And you need to understand all three of these.
You need to understand the differences between them and you need to understand when you would use one
over another one.
So first off, I've just taken this Adewusi diagram.
I didn't want to try and recreate this myself because there's quite a lot going on there.
But it just articulates a bit about the Microsoft active directory.
So this is a managed Microsoft active directory within the AWB cloud.
Now, one of the things is you can set up what's called a trust relationship.
Now, I don't know if you come from a Microsoft background or not.
I do.
I did a lot of work with Active Directory, but many people will be coming into this and I don't really
understand it.
But what this means is you set up something called a trust relationship between two active directories,
and it enables users in one active directory to be able to access resources in another active directory.
So that's simply all it is.
It's just a trust relationship between those two active directories.
So with a mix of ID, you can set up a trust relationship with your on premises active directory.
You might do this because you have your users here and you don't want to recreate them here.
You'd rather use a trust relationship now from a security and governance perspective.
That means you're keeping your users in one place, but you are extending their reach, you extending
their ability to authenticate to services somewhere else.
Now, people might like this because it's a single set of governance in terms of the user accounts,
they're in one place.
It also means that security credentials, like the passwords or the hashes of the passwords are not
stored here.
They're only stored on premises in your active directory that you manage yourself so you can then access
services within and within Awassa.
Excuse me.
And one of the things you can do, for instance, with your Windows two instances is you can join those
to the AWB, Microsoft Nancy directories so they can become computers that are part of the AWB Microsoft.
They are managed by the Microsoft Active Directory.
You can also connect to applications and services within AWA, such as work docs and workspaces.
You could connect to a Addy's Federation Services server to then extend authentication through to another
activity or actually maybe in Azerrad, for example.
So this slide gives you a quite a little bit of information about what you can do with Microsoft idea.
Let's talk look at a bit more of the background detail.
So it's a fully managed service on Adewusi infrastructure.
It's the best choice if you have more than 5000 users or you need to set up a trust relationship.
So if you're if you have a large user base, you want to have the full Aiwass managed ad or if you need
to set up a trust relationship and or because you might have the scenario where you have plus five thousand
users and you also need to set up trust relationships with other directory services.
So this is the service you need to use for those two scenarios.
It runs on a Windows server.
You can perform things like schema extensions.
It works with SharePoint, SQL Server, dot net apps, lots more.
So critically, you can set up those trust relationships to extend authentication from on premises active
directories into the cloud.
On premise, users and groups can access resources in every domain then using SSL.
So single sign on it does require a VPN or a direct connect connection.
It can also be used as a standalone active directory so you don't have to set up a trust relationship.
You can use it as just your one and only active directory configuration in the cloud.
When it's used as a standalone active directory, users can access third party applications such as
Microsoft Office 365 through Federation.
So we saw that in the diagram where you use Federation Services Server.
The next service is simple.
And so this is not a Microsoft that is directly, but it's on a simple active directory.
So it's something similar, but with fewer features.
It's inexpensive, it's active directory compatible.
We have common directory features.
So standalone, fully managed, direct.
On AWEX cloud, it's generally the least expensive option and it's the best choice if you have less
than 5000 users and you don't need advanced active directory features, it's powered by the sand.
Before Active Directory compatible server, you can create users and control access to applications
on us.
And it provides a subset of the features provided by AWB.
Microsoft Active Directory features include that you can manage user accounts and groups, apply group
policies, use Kerberos based SSA and support joining Linux or Windows based, etc. instances.
It's also compatible with workspaces.
Work Docs, work Milankovic quicksort and you can sign into the AWEX management console with simple
ADA user accounts to manage resources.
It's available in two editions.
So you have small, which is up to 500 users or approximately two thousand objects, and then you have
large, which is up to five thousand users or approximately 20000 objects to directory services and
DNS servers on two different subnets were Beninese.
So it's highly available.
It does not support these features.
Now, these are mostly features that you associate with Microsoft that are directories.
So we've got DNS dynamic update, schema extensions, multifactor authentication, communication over
secure LDAP, partial A-T commanders and ephemeral transfer.
You don't need to know all of those are just understand that it is a simple version of active directory.
So it doesn't support lots of these features.
Most of those are not going to come up in an exam question.
Perhaps schema extensions could do so.
Just be aware that it doesn't support schema extensions and it's not compatible with OD's Escorial server.
It also does not support trust relationships with other domains.
And this is another thing that could come up in an exam question.
Again, you should use the AWB managed Microsoft that is directly for that.
Instead, for the third service here we have a connecter.
So it connects it gives you the ability to connect your existing self managed active directory.
So this is most likely going to be on premises, though.
It could be running in EC2 as well.
And you need to connect that into Awassa so that you have the ability to sign into the management console,
to access to resources and so on, so you can still seamlessly join your windows to instances if something
went wrong with the slide there.
But you can connect your AC to instances to your own premises, as if to actually domain using add connector.
You have Federated Signing's database management console by mapping active directory identities here
to Adewusi IAM roles.
So you Mappin add your identity or user account to an IAM role in the management console and that user
then has the privileges that are assigned to that role.
So you can also sign into these applications as workspaces.
Work docs work email by using your active directory credentials.
Now again, you have to use a VPN or Direct Connect connection.
So let's have a look at a bit more background.
This is a directory gateway for redirecting directory requests to your on premise active directory.
It eliminates the need for directory synchronization and the cost and complexity of hosting a federation
infrastructure.
It connects your existing on premise add to us.
So this is the best choice.
When you want to use an existing ad with Adewusi services, it comes in two sizes.
So you've got the small up to five hundred users and the launch for up to 5000 users.
Now you're VPC must be connected to your on premise network via VPN or Direct Connect when users log
in to AYSO applications and connects a forward signing request to your on premise active directory domain
controllers, you can also join AC2 instances to your on premise.
Add through add connector and you can log into the AWEX management console.
So just to compare these particular to.
So I'd connect on the left and simple idea on the right for 80 connect.
So you have to have an existing active directory, whereas with simple add it is an active directory
itself.
So it's a standalone ad based on Sambor we've added Kenexa existing active to actually users can access
AWEX assets via Iame roles, whereas with simple ID, this supports user accounts, groups, group policies
and domains within the database, Hédi connects or supports multifactor authentication using radius.
Simple data does not support MFA, but it does use Kerberos by single Sinon and it also doesn't support
Trus relationships.
Just one more slide, and this is to understand some of the use cases that might put you towards one
of these services.
So starting at the top, we've got the directory service for Microsoft.
And so again, this is a.
Managed full Microsoft satisfactory running in Adewusi on Windows Server 2012 R-2.
This is when you have an enterprise that once hosted Microsoft active for free or you need LDAP out
for Linux apps.
So remember, this is where you have large user bases, maybe plus 5000 users, or you need to have
that trust relationship between your on premises, active directory and your active directory.
Then we have a connector.
So this allows on premises users to log in to services with existing aid credentials and allows easy
two instances to join the active directory domain.
So you use this when you need a single sign on for on premises employees and for adding easy to instances
to the domain.
And lastly, we have simplicity, which is a low scale, low cost active directory implementation based
on Sambor.
And you'd use that when you have a simple user directory requirement or you need just simple LDAP compatibility.
So that gives you a few different use cases.
There's one more design pattern that I didn't mention before, and that's where an organization has
an active directory on premise and they add a new active directory domain controller.
So another domain controller for their access directory enables us maybe on two, and that means that
they can extend their on premises active directory into the cloud.
The advantage of that means they then have low latency authentication services within the cloud itself.
The downside to that is they have to replicate information into the cloud.
So there's synchronization happening with their database, their user credentials of going into that
instance that's on AWB.
So just bear in mind, in case an exam question comes up, there might be certain circumstances where
an organisation or security department of an organisation doesn't want those user identities to be synchronized
into AWB.
And that might then require AWB directory service or add connecter.
What I want to do now is just head over to the AWB management console and show you where the AWB directory
services and see how we can actually configure the service.
So I'm in the AWB management console that's going to services, security, identity and compliance and
we find directory service, some of inter actually service.
We don't have anything set up so we can choose set up directory.
And this is where we have some options.
You also see there's Amazon cognito, user pools.
We cover cognito in another section of the course, but with cognito, user pools, you can also add
that user registration and sign in features typically to mobile applications.
So what we've been focusing on in this section is a has managed Microsoft and simplified an ID connector.
So if I just choose next, we can say that for the database manager, did we then get to choose from
two different editions and we then have to put in some information.
So for instance, we'd put in CCC labs dot com for the fully qualified domain name and then it might
be just DCT labs for the net byas name.
And then you put in some credentials and you can set that up and you can see what the cost is per month.
So this is going to cost 100 bucks a month or cost about three hundred and fifty for the bigger enterprise
edition.
So I'm just going to cancel out of there, go back to set up directory and then simply simplicity.
So remember, this is the Linux, Sambor Active Directory compatible server and much cheaper.
So you can see this one is fifty seven US dollars a month for the smaller one hundred and seventy two
dollars for the large and that's in the Sydney region.
Depends on where you are, which region that might be different.
And again, it's asking for very much the same information, a fully qualified domain name and that
last name and then some credentials.
So let's cancel out of that one.
And then lastly, we have the add connector.
So this is described as a proxy for redirecting directory requests to your existing Microsoft EDI without
caching any information in the cloud.
So that's a key thing to remember there.
Nothing is cached in the cloud we choose next.
Again, we have a couple of different sizes and the pricing seems to be about the same.
As for the simple Ade's so fifty seven point one hundred and seventy two dollars.
So you'll choose your option and you can type a description or otherwise you'd click on next and you
have to specify a VPC, your subnets and then you get free to the fully qualified to my name net bias,
name some DNS addresses and so on.
So that's how you configure these services.
We're not going to actually create any of these as part of this lab, but I just wanted to show you
where it all is.
So hopefully that gives you a bit more information.
Now, I know it's a little bit complex, but just try to understand the differences between the services
and the scenarios in which you would use one over another.